hey guys J here from etude language in
this lesson we're going to look at IELTS
writing task 2 and I'm going to show you
a three-step introduction that applies
to every single IELTS writing task
question that you will see it's really
simple it's really good here we go
three-step introduction the first
sentence you want to write of every
introduction for any essay question type
is a neutral background sentence I'll
show you what that means in a second I'm
going to go through and show you how to
apply this introduction to every single
question type the second sentence is
where you rewrite the question in your
own words and the third sentence you use
this phrase which is this essay will and
you tell the reader what you will tell
them alright that's a little bit crazy
how what that really means is this think
about an upside-down triangle the first
sentence of your introduction is the
neutral background sentence it's broad
its broad and what neutral means is that
it does not have an opinion no opinion
is just a background sentence on the
topic the second sentence you rewrite
the question you're getting closer now
to the topic you rewrite the question
third sentence this essay will so what
we're going to do is we're going to
apply this introductory three-step
framework to all of these IELTS essay
types the problem-solution double
question agree/disagree discussed both
views discussed both views and give your
opinion advantages disadvantages
advantages disadvantages and give your
opinion so let's look at problems and
solutions first so imagine this is what
you see on test day okay it says every
year more and more students choose to
study online rather than attend classes
on campus what do you think are the
causes of this what solutions can you
suggest so you need to be able to write
the introduction of your essay just like
that you need to know how to do it the
first sentence the first thing you do
because it will make your
test a lot easier because you go right I
know the e2 language introduction so
let's apply this so here it is on top
you'll see the question and then you've
got the neutral background sentence
rewrite the question this essay will
what does that look like well let's have
a look so let's have a look at the
neutral background sentence studying
online is becoming increasingly popular
just a neutral background sentence now I
rewrite the question in my own words so
here it says every year more and more
students choose to study online rather
than attend classes on campus I wrote
each year more students opt to study
online as opposed to attending classes
on campus so I've just rewritten that in
my own words the third sentence because
this is the problem solutions oops
solutions question this essay will
discuss the reasons why this is
happening and put forward several
solutions for this issue cool let's do
another one
three step introduction neutral
background sentence rewrite the question
this essay will that's what you have to
memorize so for this one we're looking
at the double question this is the same
as the one we just saw before every year
more and more students choose to study
online rather than attend classes on
campus but here's the two questions
why do you sorry why do students prefer
to study online
what can universities do to attract
students to study on campus how do we
write our introduction well we need a
broad neutral background sentence
studying online is becoming increasingly
popular
there's no opinion in there it's just a
background sentence then what do we do
we rewrite the question each year more
students opt to study online as opposed
to attending classes on campus third
sentence this essay will this essay will
discuss why students prefer studying
online and provide options for how
universities can bring them back to
campus
because this is I will do this and do
this
this essays will discuss this and this
so I've answered that question in my
introduction let's do another one
three-step introduction neutral
background sentence rewrite the question
this essay will call this time we'll
apply it to to what extent do you agree
or disagree question type so this one's
a bit different studying online is far
more effective than studying on campus
to what extent do you agree or disagree
this time it's not talking about
becoming more popular this time it's
talking about effectiveness this is the
creek the key term here so here it is
there's the question on top broad
background neutral statement the
effectiveness of studying online is
debatable rewrite the question well
what's the question studying online is
far more effective than studying on
campus some people believe that it is
much more effective than traditional
classroom based learning that it
referring back to studying online here
this essay will discuss why online study
is far more effective than campus based
study cool there's my three sentence
introduction it works every time like a
little Jim 3-step introduction neutral
background sentence rewrite the question
this essay will let's apply it to
discuss both views some people think
studying on campus is the most effective
way to learn while others believe that
studying online is more effective
discuss both views don't give your
opinion fine this is what I said a broad
neutral background sentence the
effectiveness of studying online is
debatable rewrite the question some
people believe that it is much more
effective than traditional classroom
based learning while others do not this
essay will discuss both sides of the
argument in detail fine let's do the
next one where we apply it to dust sorry
discuss both views and give
your opinion so it's exactly the same
but this time there's a little phrase
here that says and give your opinion so
the third sentence is going to change
okay
first sentence broad background neutral
statement the effectiveness of studying
online is debatable some people believe
that it is much more effective than
traditional classroom based learning
while others do not this time
this essay will discuss both sides of
the argument in detail and provide
evidence as to why online learning is
superior you can see that I've got this
opinion part there as well so I'm going
to discuss both views and I'm gonna give
my opinion so that third sentence is
really critical because what the third
sentence does is you start off with the
broad background neutral statement you
rewrite the question in your own words
that third sentence sets the trajectory
for your essay this essay reader will
discuss Berber
whatever it is and then of course in
your following paragraphs you follow up
on that third sentence this is how you
write a logical coherent essay that
flows let's do another one
so again three-step introduction neutral
background sentence rewrite the question
this essay will let's do the
advantages/disadvantages so some people
think studying online is more effective
than studying on campus what are the
advantages and disadvantages of studying
online fine so again I've used a broad
background one here the effectiveness of
studying online is debatable rewrite the
question some people believe that is
much more effective than traditional
classroom based learning while others do
not
third sentence discuss the advantages
and disadvantages this essay will
discuss the positive and negative
aspects of online study you could have
just written discussed the advantages
and disadvantages of online study that's
fine
this one no opinion three sentence
introduction that works every time cool
let's do another one so a three step
introduction neutral
background sentence rewrite the question
this essay will let's do the advantages
and disadvantages plus opinion this is
the final one so some people think
studying online is more effective than
studying on campus discuss the
advantages and disadvantages of studying
online and give your opinion about which
one is best so it's not just both sides
the advantages and disadvantages it's
also your opinion fine let me read the
third sentence here these two are the
same broad background neutral one
rewrite the question here we go this one
will have an opinion this essay will
discuss the positive and negative
aspects of online study and argue why
studying online is superior because it
asked me which one is best
fine last one advantages disadvantage as
an opinion this one is the question that
asks you this do you think the
advantages of studying online outweigh
the disadvantages so studying online is
big wait wait wait wait wait let's read
the whole thing it says each year more
and more students choose to study online
so this is not about effectiveness this
is about popularity increasing
popularity do you think the advantages
of studying online outweigh the
disadvantages so my broad background
neutral sentence is based on this and
it's about popularity so studying online
is becoming increasingly popular rewrite
the question while studying online does
have some deficits these are negligible
compared to the benefits because it's
talking about the advantages here so
I've I've sort of rewritten that part
this is a bit tricky this one here but
my final sentence so what did it ask me
it said do you think the advantages of
studying online outweigh the
disadvantages this essay will discuss
why the advantages of studying online
online do in fact outweigh the
disadvantages I've actually just used
language from there directly you can
write this in your own words that would
be fine cool that's it that is the three
sentence introduction broad background
neutral statement the MIT
that has no opinion okay maybe about
increasing in popularity or becoming
more controversial or is hotly debated
something like that make sure you read
the prompt to make sure your background
statement is related directly to the
prompt second sentence rewrite the
question in your own words you can use
some words directly from the prompt you
don't have to change every word into a
synonym third sentence the critical one
this essay will and I like the word
discuss personally it just works for
every essay this essay will discuss
whatever okay so make sure you read that
question carefully cool if you need any
help with your essay writing people do
check out www.engvid.com we offer
tutorials live classes written feedback
methods that work lots of practice
materials and heaps and heaps more see
you guys soon Tata